good evening new zealand
good morning europe good afternoon to
the west coast united states of america
i suppose this is close enough to prime
time in new york city
um better time than usual for my viewers
in uh australia and new zealand
i'm going to start with a short letter
from the audience so i get
email i get messages in various forms
but this was actually the thank you note
that was included with this copy of
a heavy tome on the milai massacre
and yes by the way although i have
studied cambodian
lotion pali numerous languages
modern thai numerous languages of
southeast asia and asia i did double
check
what is the pronunciation is it milai or
is it my lie
it's in fact pronounced mila it's the
milai massacre uh it's a book that's
actually bigger and heavier than i was
expecting but maybe a shallow point but
think about buying the book it's a
serious consideration
i thought this is going to be a little
pocket-sized novel to be perfectly
honest with you
anyway so this is the latest and
presumably definitive scholarly work on
the history of the milan massacre
i have not read it obviously but we
received the date with this note
from the viewer from the audience and
the first thing he says is actually
quite
moving to me he says fan since game of
thrones
so i mean you guys may not remember but
there was a time when game of thrones
was
really a significant source of
inspiration to me
not so much the tv show i could even say
not so much the books on print
i used to listen to the audiobooks not
of the works of george rr martin
in general not just game of thrones i
used to listen to when doing push-ups
and lifting weights to the gym
maybe that's what my workout is lacking
right now make sure you get back to
listening to
the georgia heart and i was i was
lifting weights very heavily in those
days which i'm not at the moment in case
you hadn't guessed
but you know when you're really lifting
at your limit you then sit there out of
breath
you know between sets and so on i
remember going through that that
literature
and you know we all went through the
tragedy of what happened with the
television adaptation
which basically got worse and worse and
worse as the years went on
but that was adds up to quite a few
years of my life
i started watching that show when my
daughter was a newborn infant
and now she's a fully grown human being
anyway yeah so it's interesting but this
is someone who's been watching my
youtube channel since the days
when i discussed game of thrones and for
me what was so interesting about that
series of books and so on
had a lot to do with politics uh
politics critique of religion and so on
and so forth also
it was just this fan since scheme of
thrones here are two topic suggestions
that would be fun
personality tests like mbti
so mbti is the notorious mayor's briggs
uh personality test i am naughty right
now so now
you have heard of us
as obvious as that is i hadn't thought
of that so she says that people
give their personality profile on their
instagram profile i guess i have
i've seen that i was going to say it's
the topic of innumerable
sort of cosmopolitan magazine articles
it's the the stuff of pop psychology in
this
in this sense um anyway i'll i'll leave
out the rest of his his comment i'll
treat the rest of it as private
but you know one of the most fundamental
things
i say this to my girlfriend i say this
to my mom i says to my personal friends
and i say this to my enemies than the
internet too and the middle of debates
he says you know i think of philosophy
as a problem-solving method and to some
extent also over time over the centuries
you know you have the accumulation and
comparative study of many
problem-solving methods like you look at
buddhist philosophy and think about how
that shapes society and contrast the
catholic and muslim philosophy and
atheist philosophy so you know at some
point
you get the you get kind of meta
philosophy the philosophy of philosophy
but fundamentally why do we do
philosophy why do we think
philosophically it's to solve problems
and it's not to create
problems and i think that this type of
personality test first and foremost is a
great example
of people creating jargon for the sake
of creating jargon
people creating problems for the sake of
creating problems you're creating these
distinctions really invidiousistic
distinctions if
taken seriously between different
personality types and
for what and why to solve what problem
they'll give you hypothetical it's not
so hard to relate to
what if the air force is trying to
distinguish between the people
who drop out of the program and people
who succeed they say well you know what
every year we recruit
200 people into this pilot training
program and so many
of them just for one reason another give
up and then there are these other people
who succeed
an even better example would be the
submarine service something like above
95 percent of the men who think they've
got what it takes to be in the submarine
service and who get through the initial
program of
rigorous testing like 95 can't
cope with being on a submarine this very
small percentage man
so you might say okay let's let's take
this new science or this new philosophy
of personality tests and let's try to
figure out
what type of person you know can hack it
in the air force what kind of person can
succeed in the navy and the submarine
service and this this would solve the
problem for us right
so that would be a i think a really
serious philosophical
and ultimately scientific approach to
personality tests
okay some people succeed
at learning languages and some people
fail and now i could add to this a long
paragraph
of what conditions we're talking about
when i lived in
thailand my boss so i used to work in
the publishing industry
non-fiction publishing i was an editor
of non-fiction books
i guess i guess i should start hyping up
that part of my background more now that
i'm identifying with hashtag
booktube right and like hashtag
bookstagram
now that i'm on those hashtags i should
emphasize that i'm a former former
non-fiction editor
but hey i was at this uh remarkable
nonfiction publishing house
based in in thailand and my boss he'd
been there for decades and decades
and he labored with such fundamental
errors
in the thai language like his errors
were mind-blowing to me
you know what i mean and i'm sorry i've
probably told the santa before
maybe five years ago on the channel or
something but it would be things like
you know there was a name for a certain
type of building like a certain type of
municipal
office building so it's not quite the
mayor's office but it's a certain type
of government office
and he thought that was the name of the
city that the building was located in
there were all these weird errors he had
and i remember one of them
was it was again just a place name a top
of them
that was literally written on the side
of the highway like and it wasn't just
one sign like he was driving past this
sign
like 10 times a day every day for more
than 10 years
and he had this place name wrong i'm
just not giving the particular place
names because
i don't wanna i don't wanna dox people
whatever i'm not gonna give away this
actress or something
but like there are all these kind of
mind-blowing language areas
and you think okay so i've been here for
a short time and working hard in the
language like really
really i've been studying for a very
short time and i'm i'm catching all
these things and you've been here for
all these years
so you know you could try to devise a
personality test that solves this
problem now
my former boss the guy i'm talking about
in town so he was a white
german who moved to thailand and been
there for decades
and you know in some ways he could use
the language well but you could say
incredibly
sloppy with incredibly poor accuracy and
you know
he he slept with prostitutes
and lived a very
he had he had what the french might call
joao de vivre
you know he enjoyed his life on his
terms in a way that i wouldn't
he was a bit of a brute centralist he
was a very self-confident
person uh he didn't care if he hurt
other people's feelings he didn't care
if he
he was not sensitive to other people in
that way and so many he lived a kind of
brash
reckless life treading on everyone's
toes including his own
and the brash reckless life sexually and
in every other way
um so very stark contrast to me at that
time i was a scholar of buddhism
leading this very tightly disciplined
controlled self-examined life and so on
so you could try to assess the
difference between our personalities
and say well okay a certain type of
personality is
noticing these errors really sharp on
the details and a certain about
personality is kind of reckless and
sloppy and there's a sense in which he's
learned the language he's able to
communicate
but he's getting things wrong all the
time he doesn't notice it
yeah it seems as if you could start to
put together something that's both
philosophically valuable and
has some scientific validity for the
army for the navy
for language education maybe for the
teachers also the different personality
types of teachers all right
and absolutely none of this can be said
for the myers-briggs personality test
absolutely nothing like this can be said
for
any of the psychological profiling and
personality tests
of our time and one of the most telling
aspects
is that these personality tests do not
include any
negative traits how about laziness
right does laziness show up your
personality test now again
not to insult anyone who has dyslexia
right
but if you were doing this study whether
for the military or for language a
condition like is
dyslexia you can call that part of your
personality or not it would be
crucially important to measure something
like dyslexia well this isn't part of
personalities my introduction to um
the strange world of pseudoscientific
personality tests was finding a tome on
a bookshelf
in a secondhand bookstore in toronto
canada a big heavy tome
and it was the famous minnesota
personality index test which is mmpi oh
so melissa's heard of this
yeah when i worked for the psychologist
you have some professional experience
yeah was he interviewed and he used this
point scoring system the
m in all the api
so i saw all the test questions so
i i had this tome that i bought second
hand
and it was the collected life stories
of mmpi profilees people have been
profiled
and i forget the original purpose was to
do something like profile them in grade
six and then again in grade nine and
then again at the end of high school
this kind of thing it was you know and
to describe the personality and it was
so
tragic i think the first entry i read
sailing to some other dogs i'd like to
discuss today if the audience is into it
i think the first entry i read was about
a first nations girl an american indian
girl
and describes her whole terrible life
you know in the midst of genocide and
it's trying to describe her personality
it's like well you know obviously she's
a person of resilience and boldness and
she was born in these terrible
circumstances and this was her mother
and this was her father
and you know this unbelievable struggle
to overcome
you know terrible circumstances and you
know she does she does really badly in
school
but when the teachers are asked about it
the teachers will say oh well it's not
because she's stupid you know she's a
bright kid but she comes from a tough
background
you know like she got this kind of
fascinating emotionally moving profile
of this girl and this series of numbers
of course you could take this serious
number this was what the book was
created for
so you could see what the numbers meant
in practice and then you could look up
another profile for a boy the same age
who got the same rating the same numbers
and says you know jim was a dull boy
none of his teachers thought he was
particularly interesting or intelligent
described as a boring person by the way
that's all they did they interviewed the
kid
and they interviewed a couple of the
kids teachers and uh
i think so maybe a couple of their
schoolyard friends or something asked
when asked about the school board nobody
thought he was distinctive one way or
the other
and look some of the profiles that's all
they said it was like this kid is
nondescript there's nothing interesting
about this
i mean um and you know of course some of
them was like oh this kid is already an
alcoholic or what have you
and the point is when you compared the
narrative data about these children or
teenagers
because as they recall went to the end
of high school or something uh
to you know this set of numbers that was
supposedly quantifying their personality
it of course it completely you know
revealed how
how ridiculous this this attempt to
quantify personality is
yeah but so you know babe so it is
interesting to hear people are still
using
mmpi the minnesota personalities for
clients who are doing child custody
evaluations so
he would interview adults how crazy they
are basically yeah
this was they did show some negative
characters like some negative traits
yeah anyway um
yeah so it's interesting to still be
used diagnostically well i was reminded
that it hadn't completely disappeared
from the world because it is considered
debunked old-fashioned it is i mean i
would say it's not the state of the art
and the
in the jordan peterson does not use the
mnpi for example
um he uses the big five personality test
and so on
but um i remember there was an episode
of the simpsons
it is the episode in which the secret
origin of ned flanders is revealed
and it extensively makes fun of the mmpi
system
so yeah anyway this is the question i
had in from the audience is what i
thought about these types of
of personality tests and i think you can
tell
part of what i'm suggesting to you is
that there is a tragedy here that there
is the potential for something
scientifically valid and meaningful and
philosophically rigorous
you know to come out of these kinds of
questions but they have to be posed as
questions and that's not what we're
doing here
we're starting with a solution and then
proliferating problems and proliferating
jargon and proliferating categories
that have absolutely no problem solving
value so you know if you want to know
specifically about myers-briggs
my assertion here is that the
myers-briggs profiling system will not
in any way differentiate
who will succeed and who will fail in
the american military
it will not in any way help you to
differentiate who will be a good
language student who will be a good
language teacher or an even better
question
what type of language teacher would be
best suited to what type of language
student that could be fantastic research
to do say okay well this is the kind of
kid who doesn't
forget kids do this with adults this is
the kind of adult
who you know is naturally not sociable
and not
you know prone to speaking so they need
a teacher who's going to encourage them
to speak
obviously you could come up with some
really useful you know conclusions this
time
alas this is not uh this is not the way
of of science in our times
and it's not the way of cosmopolitan
magazine so it's a great
a tragedy that what goes on in
universities on the one hand
is not really linked to research and on
the other hand is not really linked
to education so following up on
melissa's video you might want to write
this down to the timestamp
following up on melissa's video i had
one long time
uh viewer uh right into the channel
and he objected at first he said no i i
disagree with what melissa's doing in
the video
there's the scientific evidence that
music education is
fantastically productive helpful and
he didn't get angry at me but i really
made fun of him and really insulted him
after this and i it only took a couple
google searches to find out what the
source of this information was
and it's this shameful you know
perception of music laboratory in
montreal
attached to mcgill and it's this is
really what universities have become
today
and it's this guy who's a snake oil
salesman who's had a best-selling book
he's had a book on the new york times
bestseller list about how music
education has all these wonderful
effects you he has this
laboratory where he does experiments
such as having you immerse your hand in
a bucket of ice cold water
while listening to one kind of music and
then have you immerse your hand in a
bucket of ice cold water
while listening to a different kind of
music and see how well you endure the
pain and well listen differently
you know none of it proves anything all
of it's just to excite and entice the
you know get you know get people you
know buying his new york times
best-selling book
yeah getting no no getting people to
donate to university right it's
fundraising for the university
this is the kind of show business side
of academia today
which again it neither has to do with
real research nor does it have to do
with yeah yeah yeah
and um obviously there's a lot of
self-justification in these claims that
the study of
music will make you more intelligent or
something but in this case there was a
whole another layer of scam anyway
the long time viewer the channel uh i
think i'm sure that was andreas
out in in los angeles that was i wrote
it to me i don't think he'll be very
scared to be shown about
and he seemed to concede the point i
think he felt like he watched this ted
talk
or heard this thing that was quoting
this book and he assumed this was real
science
and the moment you googled in the moment
you looked into it you uh
you know so okay so uh guys i'm happy to
answer questions from the audience
um yeah anyway not show business
comments about the big five
personalities i do not want to get into
the big five
personality test um
i could easily make a youtube video
discussing the big five personality test
um but yeah i mean i think you can guess
uh what kind of
critical direction it's taking uh james
writes in and asks isil
i'm curious to hear your opinion of
prime minister justin trudeau and your
opinion of kansas mainstream political
parties
well it's great that you should ask that
so just today i produced my incredibly
sophisticated and elaborate taxonomy
of canadian democracy so i'm going to
give you the link to that right now you
can see this
in-depth diagram that in one image
in one postage stamp size image
exhaustively and
in great detail explains to you my
analysis
of how canadian democracy works or it
doesn't work so
this diagram for those of you at home
who are not clicking on the link to not
see it
it divides canadian politics six ways
the pro-cbc
left the pro-cbc right the pro-cbc
center
then the anti-cbc left anti-cbc right
anti-cbc center
this is my uh this is my proposal for
understanding canadian politics
look guys um a lot of what i've been
writing about lately so i'm still
answering your question james this is
still
applied important question about the
prime minister you know a lot hi lydia
hi natasha nice to see you nice that
you're here at this time of day i was
hoping we'd get some people from new
zealand
but we'll see uh i guess new zealand is
also celebrating the end
chronovirus quarantine and are out
dancing around in the sunshine or happy
for the first time
but for i know right now my whole
youtube channel is fewer views because
this is there's not a time people want
to be sitting at home listening to
morality lectures
and for me morality lectures never go
out of season
uh okay sorry it's the question about
justin trudeau and the
canadian political system a lot of what
i'm writing about right now for my book
no more manifestos buy your copy make a
down payment
mortgage your house um i'm writing this
book
no more manifestos a lot of what it
deals with is the problem that so much
of our political discourse
is focused on the moral quality of a
person's character
and not on their actual political
responsibilities how the system works or
what
what it is they're supposed to deliver
or accomplish if we vote for them
or if we elect them like what is it you
are exchanging your your vote for
now for the most part in our culture and
in our political systems plural
um all we can say for ourselves is that
we voted for the person we felt was
morally superior
with no expectation no understanding of
what what they would do in return no
commitment from them what they would do
you know give very easy to understand
example most people
felt they were electing barack obama
to close down the torture chambers in
iraq and in guantanamo bay cuba so at
that time
those who aren't old enough or those who
weren't following american politics
those may now seem like minor footnotes
in history those were huge issues right
at the time barack obama was elected
and people thought the first day he came
into office there'd be some kind of
decisive change that would end the use
of torture and close down those specific
facilities
uh in iraq and afghanistan but in
guantanamo bay
cuba above all else now
what did barack obama do in afghanistan
and in iraq
it is very fair to say that he continued
and expanded on the policies of george w
bush there wasn't some kind of sudden
shift in policy you know that the war in
one sentence the war continued
and many of the you know distinctive
strategies strategic
approaches of uh george w bush versus
the use of drone strikes
which left when people did not like i by
the way i'm not
i'm not a stereotypical person there are
many things people in the left say that
i don't particularly agree with
i think the hysteria about drone strikes
was misplaced it was based on a
misunderstanding
of the technology and more but any case
the people who voted
for barack obama they hated drone
strikes they were morally opposed to
drug strikes i'm not but you know
and they thought that was going to
change and no it was massively expanded
under obama there were more drone
strikes
so even i don't know if you guys
remember this there was a particular
artist
uh who made iconic posters for obama
and they were obama's face with the word
hope
and a very distinctive color scheme and
he proposed that he redo
the poster with the word drones
instead of so this just shows at that
time this was really perceived as a big
deal
now what could anyone say oh well they
voted for obama because they felt
morally and ethically
he was the better person than the
alternative but there's no particular
commitment
you know the moral and intellectual
quality of our leaders
matters and my opinion of justin trudeau
if that is what you are asking me is
that he is
morally and intellectually a bad person
i think he is stupid and immoral
all right i don't think justin trudeau
has read
aristotle i don't think justin trudeau
has read thucydides
i don't think he's read anything else to
compensate i think he is someone who was
born rich and became lazy
and got a little bit too comfortable a
little bit too early in life
he has been photographed partying in
blackface
repeatedly he himself admitted he does
not know how many times
he wore blackface and this was not such
ancient history this wasn't in the 1930s
or something
you know he's not that old you know and
it wasn't that many years ago
but i mean in every way you know
including this it is an indication i'm
sorry
for any of you in the audience okay
alexa
how old is justin trudeau
justin trudeau is 49 years old okay
alexa stop
okay justin trudeau is 49. okay i'm 42.
okay it's not ancient any of you in the
audience who are in your 40s
did you did you did you wear blackface
at a party like repeatedly did you dress
up in blackface you know
i'm sorry i know this is a kind of uh
you know
small and symbolic indication of how
stupid a guy the guy
is but yes i that is really genuinely my
moral and intellectual
evaluation guy now it's interesting to
note i met with one of my chinese
professors
at the university of victoria right
around the time justin trudeau
won the election so this is someone who
is
ethnically chinese as well as being an
expert in chinese politics
you know he's a professor who is chinese
and who studies and teaches
things chinese and i remember he said to
me with this very worried
expression on his face he said you know
all of my friends
probably his friends are all left-wing
academics they're all
excited and hopeful about you know prime
minister
justin trudeau with this new and
different prime minister you know
and he said but i'm not and you know
english is a second language i think you
just said i'm not
i think it's bad and um
uh you know i smiled at him we knew each
other pretty well i wouldn't say we're
close friends or something we talked
many times
i said i think it's bad also
remember started in this kind of very
esl
way you know um you know
and we talked about how low our
expectations were for justin trudeau
so yeah you know unfortunately i do
think justin joe's a bad person and a
stupid person
he came into office with an incredibly
vague set of promises
and you know aside from massively
increasing the bankruptcy
of canada i mean massively overspending
being really you know
economically irresponsible what indeed
do we have to show what are the
accomplishments
of his time in office and i think when
he leaves we can ask this
same question now you know a real
contrast here is joe biden
joe biden had the most shocking first
hundred days
in office certainly during my lifetime
he really came to office with an amazing
list of things he wanted to do
not just to change the united states of
america but to change the rest of the
world
now i don't know if joe biden has
another 100 days in it
just i'm skeptical maybe for the rest of
joe biden's demon office he's going to
accomplish nothing maybe nothing's
really going to change
possible but you know that was somebody
who came with a very strong sense of
mission and mandate and purpose
and he's already really changed the
world forever and he's changed life
united states america forever and he may
he may continue to do so
but you know justin trudeau did not come
into office with any such agenda
obviously his ability to do anything
since the start of
the coronavirus quarantine period has
been very limited but he accomplished
nothing before that and now he's just an
endless
cycle of making excuses for his having
failed to accomplish anything
and so also for those of you in our
canadian who don't already know i
haven't been talking about this
but yes there is a there is at least one
corruption scandal with him i i would
say there are two
i'm confident in saying he's guilty of
you know there have been misdeeds of
that kind with
uh with him in power and so on and those
you know the details of those scandals
are very boring but they reflect these
fundamental problems both those moral
his moral characters intellectual
character and you know then we can say
in this sense his uh his political
character
okay guys so i'm i'm happy to talk i'm
happy to talk about whatever you guys
started with the audience but i also do
have my own list things to talk about
many of them being books books that i've
bought books that i've read or that i
haven't read so this book was given to
me by a member of the audience he's
already been thanked
but you say i haven't read this yet if
you want to read this along with me
if you want to read it and we'll talk
about it on live streams right
this is an opportunity there's a chance
so you know i just say you you the fact
that i'm going to talk about books i
haven't read yet or that i've only read
a little bit about
creates the possibility of a different
kind of audience
interaction and you know so this is a
book i will be talking about
on future episodes if you order it from
amazon or
get ordered from the library you
probably have this for free from the
library guys
uh we can suffer through it together and
you know maybe i'll reflect on things
oh yes good point uh sorry i just assume
everyone knows already
so first name howard last name jones
howard jones
and i should say you know what i give
you guys that link too there was
actually an interview with him maybe
that's too boring
yeah i guess i won't okay there is a
podcast interviewing the guy that i
enjoyed but you know what it is a pretty
boring interview
uh but if you look around you maybe you
can find some more interesting because
he he did do some interviews and
podcasts to promote the book
when it was new as so many authors
do in this day and age um
we actually have an insane troll in the
audience
who is not fandar how what a
that's that's a change okay
[Laughter]
guys i'm seeing some messages you guys
aren't seeing by the way because youtube
automatically sensors this stuff and
then i if i don't click to unsensor it
it stays censored so depending on
different uh
different keywords things to get uh
censored
so i just mentioned it sorry this is not
uh not doing anything in a particular
order but in terms of the book club
um another book that i'm still at the
the first impression stage with
i think you can read that right off the
camera right off the screen the plot to
kill
king the truth behind the assassination
of martin luther king jr
the final book on this topic from
william
pepper esquire um
okay this guy devoted his life or many
decades of his life
to researching and talking about the
assassination of martin luther king jr
this is published by sky horse
publishing
incorporated it doesn't really sound
like a real
publisher because it's not and i gotta
tell you something this doesn't really
look like a real book um it's not well
written
it's not well organized there are big
chunks of
text and image that look like they are
you know
the uh the appendix to an appendix or
something
and there are there are so this is a
huge book i think we got about 600 pages
but there are large parts of it you
would not read so it's like 700 pages of
text
so you know you get transcripts and all
this stuff
so look guys maybe there are 150 pages
of text in here that would really
interest you
now that could be a good thing because
you probably don't have time to read 700
pages of text
right but i just mentioned the book is
shorter than it appears to be um
he published several similar books
before this and this is the summation of
his research
covering her many headings she's i'm not
against that i'm not against someone
writing the same book again and again so
to speak and updating and expanding and
improving it
but i have to say this is not um
a literary masterpiece and the question
i have for you and one of the reasons i
bought this book i've heard many by the
way i've heard many interviews with this
guy over the years
uh william pepper he's been on the talk
show circuit
and he's been on the youtube circuit and
the podcast circuit but you know even
before he's been on broadcast television
and broadcast radio for many many years
raising the question of who really
killed
uh dr martin martin luther king jr
the question is ultimately did he prove
this
i do already feel i have a good
understanding of exactly what happened
and why
in the death of martin luther king jr
but
understanding what happened and being
able to present
something as a proven established fact
these are two very different things now
likewise i just mentioned i feel i have
a totally good understanding of what
happened with the assassination of
jfk you know however you know could you
prove in a court of law that precisely
this happened in this way for these
reasons
as opposed to speaking in broad
brushstroke generalities
of what happened and why uh so one
reason to pay the money to get this book
get out of the library what have you is
just ask the question can it be proven
and if william pepper couldn't prove it
in so many decades
then i guess nobody can so i will give
you guys the
link to a youtube video here if you want
just a kind of three minute introduction
to this
okay the infamous tv judge judge joe
brown who was also
involved in the court cases that were
appealing
the conviction of james earl ray so in
the first
three minutes of this eight minute video
you
will be made to understand
i mean if you want to put three minutes
into this sometime this will in three
minutes let you know that there are
palpable incontrovertible scientifically
verified facts that prove
that the official government version of
events cannot be true
so the most obvious this comes up in the
assassination of jfk and it comes with
the assassination of rfk
are just uh ballistics so the science of
ballistics which bullet comes from which
kind of gun
so if people say he was shot with this
rifle
but the actual bullet that entered his
body doesn't match with that rifle it's
not the right
rifle for that kind of bullet there are
some
simple palpable incontrovertible
scientific facts like that that means
that one version of events is not true
but as i say the fact like the fact that
you can say
with the assassination of jfk for
example that the magic bullet theory
is preposterous or is false we can prove
that theory is false okay that's one
thing
but then is there a different theory is
there a difference with which you can
prove
is correct so the onus is on the author
here william pepper
not just to demolish
misconceptions about the assassination
of martin luther junior but to actually
establish
new and different uh historical facts
so someone from the audience uh paid
five dollars the five euros in fact
i just mentioned guys um i used to post
how much and how little money
i make on youtube uh
on my blog all the time this so this
five dollar donation that will basically
be all the money
generated by this broadcast i mean maybe
20 cents or something will be generated
by youtube center right now
if you'd like i could post that you know
i could post that information
now obviously if you get 20 cents for
every video it does add up to something
over time
uh certainly i make more than 100 us
dollars a month from youtube right now
i can get you guys the exact numbers but
it is very very little so
i just say a five dollar donation i
appreciate it and also that will
basically be
99 of the revenue generated for this for
this podcast would be the nations of
this guy
this podcast this live stream this
youtube video in whatever format you
encounter this content
we're uh we're producing together right
now okay so wicked energy writes in with
five
five euro donation speaking of
have you had any comments on richard
stallman
or the free as in liberty software
movement okay
um i'm joking around if you own
one of these devices you can't say the
name of the robot without a response
who's asking about my robot companion
here
um alexa how tall is joe biden
joe biden is six feet tall
there you go but if i mention her name
she'll start listening and respond to
what we're saying
so unless we want to join we want to
join the conversation so have a do i
have any comments on the free software
movement
guys i have made videos talking about
this before my overall approach to this
is to criticize the ongoing history we
have
which is sadly centered in the united
states of america
of uh intellectual property rights of
copyright
so let me see if i can get you the link
of that i do think we need to very very
fundamentally
i don't know if i can get you that video
i'm sorry um
it may take too long
i don't want you guys to have to sit
here oh here we go
so the title of video is the public
domain copy
pardon me the public domain colon star
wars should be deregulated
so there you go uh i'll give you guys
the link to that if you're interested
uh yeah you know i do think there is a
need to
very fundamentally and profoundly change
our legal
ethical philosophical approach to what
intellectual property is to what uh
copyright is
so on and so forth um okay melissa could
you turn on that light now it's just
it's getting a little bit dimmer as the
as the as the sun sets
i think it's a good time too i have a
very simple question
oh are you still in china
you're more than a year out of date if
you think i'm still in china no i'm i'm
not living in china now
i had to leave uh taiwan suddenly
because of the conditions of
coronavirus quarantine but i was living
in taiwan
a year and a half ago more than one year
ago i was i was living in taiwan
and i'm currently living in canada and
indeed i was promising to talk a little
bit more about the politics again in
this video
a question have you seen the jfk movie
kevin costner
i have uh it is [ __ ] i mean
if it inspires you to go out and learn
something new and valuable
that's nice you can watch all kinds of
terrible movies that might inspire you
to call it something new and valuable
you know like i'm not i'm not against
that you could watch conan the barbarian
for example but no i mean the um the
kevin costner movie it's
uh it is a very strange fiction now it
lies about many things but just very
briefly one of the most important lies
in the jfk movie would be um you know
the attempt to make
jfk into a peacenik hero
who was going to end the vietnam war and
that the reason for jfk's assassination
was that he was supposedly heroically
about to end the vietnam war
but then because he was assassinated the
vietnam war went on longer
um you can look into what the origin of
that that myth is but i think that is a
really dangerous thing to be dishonest
about
uh in this united states the jfk was a
martyr for peace
uh that's not true at all and you can
take a look into what jfk did in the
cuban missile crisis
and you can take a look into what jfk's
policy was on cuba itself
or what he did in terms of diplomacy
with the russians uh
no i mean so there are a lot of really
dangerous misconceptions there
however if it gets you interested in
understanding what really happened in
history
um as opposed to you know lies and half
truths that may have been told to you by
your parents your grandparents or your
high school teachers
then you know certainly you know more
power to you
this is one of those moments we're going
to change topic do you got to vote babe
in particular you want me to you want me
do you want me to do israel last time
there were people asking me to talk
about israel and i demurred
so israeli paul is one thing another
issue that's on the top of us today
yeah canadian genocide the uh the
question of yeah yeah
give what you want me to do okay so
melissa's vote so one person the
audience says israel yes melissa's vote
is canadian genocide yes oh gee this
fanning this is good
it's okay no no no i don't know it's
fine um
someone in the audience says isil can
you please discuss the immorality of
owning cats and dogs as
pets now you know james that really is
something i've covered on the channel
before i'm happy to have this kind of
question i don't mind
but i've got to invoke youtubers prince
privilege here
um i have a memorable video called your
cat
hates you and there is another very
memorable video called
your dog hates you but no i did many
different
videos covering that and there is a
playlist called the wildlife management
paradigm so let's just note that down
wildlife
management paradigm uh
do i have this i might have a separate
playlist for pets and one of the best
videos when i did with melissa
remember that and it was like uh
that's also a great one flush your
emotional support hamster down the
toilet
that's a great video yeah that's that's
what you're thinking of
i was thinking though
we talked about pet ownership but i
don't know if that's the one that you're
thinking about
yeah i was thinking when we did
two-handed and it's it's like
uh companions are not captives it's
something like that
so let me just see this like captive
animals are not companion animals
uh so i've really yeah so the actual the
actual title
oh you look great in this video the
lighting is really working for you
uh captive animals are not companion
animals there you go now
guys this is a prolex literature i am
providing you with this is
hours and hours of viewing on the topic
of the immorality of owning uh
dogs and cats so you know oh here's a
great book how far down in your reading
list is the mao book
okay well which we have several now
which one do you want to get
are you thinking of which one are you
thinking of alec maybe do you mean
tombstone
do you mean yeah right how the red sun
rose we have we have several
okay baby i'll just oh it's okay i don't
need to hold the book it's okay i can i
can hold the books
um you know uh so alec i just say
um i i definitely want to want to talk
about ancient rome here
uh but you know um
my assumption is that in september i'm
going to be back in class at
university of victoria so the assumption
is i'm going to be going back to
studying chinese as a language and
thinking and working a lot about
politics of china
so it doesn't really make sense you're
working on mao zedong or chinese
politics now
but the assumption is come september so
this month well
june i'm going to be finishing my book
um
and then we'll see how much time i do or
don't put into physically printing or
publishing the book
uh so this is my last chance to not
worry about
mao zedong and politics in china yeah
okay so anyway um
as uh as mentioned uh melissa's vote was
for canadian genocide we have other
votes for
for israel so alec was in fact asking
about how the how the red sun rose
so that's when well no but we have the
other book you remember the book about
uh the history of that's an even better
book
the history of uh agriculture
in in communist china that one that's a
great book man so this one
guys and yeah yeah we're we're
passionate about these books we just
don't have them read it guys
so there you go land wars this is one to
check out guys and this guy did a really
good
uh podcast interview if you if you look
him up so his name is brian de mer
or brian brian demar i'd assume it's the
mayor but hey
brian de mer uh land wars there's really
one and hey
look how thin this is look at that
there's a book that doesn't waste your
time guys
like that instead of i mean how the red
sun rose that's a commitment jeez whew
this is
this is brief man if you do not include
the endnotes or the appendix this is
166 pages this is a lean
meme non-fiction machine so there you go
and again for us that can make a big
difference like maybe between now and
september i can read this maybe we can
both rate it
that's the book we're all passionate
about babe can we share the jar of water
can you just move it here so i can reach
it thanks
i'm working up a sweat yeah
okay get the winner but if if dogs start
barking outside we're gonna have to
close one around
so another great question uh why
politics is china do you plan on moving
back there
well that's what my university degree is
in so we
if i finish this university degree then
we presume i'm going to be
thinking and talking more about politics
china the chinese language
uh if i don't who knows okay guys so
this
is may 31st 2021
and the news story of the day is the
genocide of canada's indigenous people
something that
you know it's not the new story
every which day you know uh so let me
just ask you guys that you can answer
this what do you think the annual budget
of
nasa is for the united states of america
but 23 million i believe
i misspoke 23 billion
yup memory serves so most recent budget
was uh 22.6 billion so we're going to
round that off to 23 billion
um annual budget for the canadian
space agency is 421
million dollars all right so let's let's
just let's just put that in perspective
okay
now you know why don't you show me um
could you build paradise
in the middle of the arizona desert for
the last surviving members
of the indigenous people there the
navajo and so on the nad dna
for those who could you build paradise
in the middle of the desert for one
billion dollars
how about 23 billion how about 23
billion
a year year after year after year right
if we're talking about money okay the
united states of america
has the money to solve this problem
they're spending it
on international space station this is
the first thing to put a priority here
okay it's
put into perspective here is the
question of
priority and people think about priority
as
if it is not a black and white ethical
issue
and it is it is matters of priority
are questions of who gets to live
and who gets to die they are questions
of right and wrong
good and evil matters of priority are
not just questions like the one i was
asked
a few minutes ago oh in what order are
you going to read the books
that you're reading okay governments
make decisions that involve
billions of dollars now coming back to
um
you know fundamental and profound issues
of political science political
philosophy that go all the way back
to ancient greece and ancient rome you
guys might or might not remember
that i made a youtube video talking
about redistributing land
ownership right that video it has more
than one conclusion
but i'll ask you this about land
ownership certain
radical left-wing groups in america
still today are asking for the
redistribution of land
they want land to be given to black
people who are descendants of slaves
they want black pardon me they want
black and
indigenous people generally to receive
land and they want
in particular descendants of you know
first nations people american indians
who were kicked off
to be given their land back so this is a
commoner frame this is in fact
chanted by protesters in the united
states america the chantey is quote
quote land back grammatically not the
best chant but i guess it rhymes with a
lot of things
okay so this is one approach to politics
one approach to the
political problem author now again if
you think about
the budget for solving this problem as
being on about the same order as
as nasa's annual budget for space
exploration
if you if you think about it in the tens
of billions of dollars the united states
of america and in the hundreds of
millions of dollars
uh for tiny poverty stricken canada
our smaller and poorer country than
assets america
then yes at a cost of billions dollars
you could you could
try to solve this problem through land
distribution i
tried to guide my audience to the
conclusion in my earlier video talking
about redistributing
land ownership to i tried to guide you
to see the wisdom of instead thinking in
terms of
redistribution of opportunity
not of land and one of the easiest and
one of the most
important ways to redistribute
opportunity is through education
so the education system could indeed be
described as the distribution
of economic opportunity now if you are
canadian
if you are born and raised and have
lived your whole life in canada
i can ask you have you ever had a
surgeon who was cree
or ojibwe or mohawk
or inuit
you know have you ever met an architect
who was cree or ojibwe or
mohawk or inuit if you think about
all of the kree and ojibwe and mohawk
and indian people all the first nations
and indigenous people you have met
in all walks of life what jobs
did they have what was their economic
and social
status in our society now i'm not going
to make the claim that there are
zero indigenous people in these types of
elite professions
but to say they are underrepresented is
an understatement and if you are
canadian and if you've been listening to
the news today
it's the news story being talked about
today then you all know why
okay we had an education system that was
designed to
exterminate our indigenous people yes
cultural genocide
but it also involved eugenic methods of
population control
yes some of them were directly killed
some of them also were castrated
chemically castrated i know of cases and
these are established as real historical
fact where just x-rays
were used on the testicles of uh first
nations men as
as boys in these schools to render them
incapable of reproduction so this is
overt
eugenic policy so you know
to reduce the number of children they're
having and thus erase them from the map
of canada so there were various methods
of you know eugenic and cultural
genocidal
policy against them and also just
outright simple
genocide and now apart from that there
was never
any concept of excellence
in the education program there was never
any idea
that the school in a small town in
northern british columbia
which is where these corpses were
discovered by the way it was
kamloops so just up the road here um
it's a long road and canada is a huge
country so the distance from here to
kamloops compared to a distance within
england within europe it's huge
but by canadian standards it's not that
far from where i'm sitting right now
small town in central central mountains
of british columbia
the idea that the high school where you
educate
indigenous people or the primary school
that this should be the envy of the
western world
that you should be able to take a
photograph of this and say with
pride we're not like the russians
we're not exterminating our indigenous
look at what the soviet union
is doing to its indigenous people out in
siberia out in
you know the asiatic expanse of the
eastern russia eastern soviet
look at the terrible genocidal policies
we are not like that we are providing
our people with an education we're proud
of
and that they can be proud of and our
indigenous people are going to go on
to become the architects and the
surgeons and the senators
and the leaders of our society right
this kind of very simple idea of
excellence
it was absent from the system education
it was quite intentionally so
now you see there are some parallels the
parallels are always imperfect
but you know um in australia
they had a special education system
that's i don't know how well-known this
is this is something well known to
people like me
it is it is well known that they set up
a special
education system not for their
indigenous people but for the people who
were half
white and half indigenous
and it was the openly stated purpose of
this special
education program to train these people
to basically be janitors
to take up the lowest forms of
employment in the cities with the
assumption or assertion being they would
neither be
accepted by the indigenous community nor
by the white community they would have
to have this special status
um yeah as as the lowest of the low and
unskilled
you know positions of labor and so on
yeah now
you know um
i know various anecdotes about what you
know
what the framers of the canadian
constitution thought about a heart
attack and what their
plans were them primarily their plan was
for them to just not exist
right but if you ask what kind of
education were they being provided with
what kind of job training what kind of
preparation
uh for the world i have done i have done
some research on this i was used to be
at first nations university and so on
and it was always very instructive who
the exceptions were who was actually
successful
so when you read about people who did
well who actually got a good education
and led to a good job
i'm thinking of a real example but i
think you have one in particular but
this is not a pattern you see again
again
there was a young man who was extremely
talented at hockey
and in another case it's a young man
who's talented at lacrosse and the
teachers and the priests
took him aside and like oh well we have
to make sure you get good
food because you're the you're the hog
you're going to be a hockey star you
know and he was
he was he was getting ahead oh don't
read the
the books the other kids are we're going
to provide you with better education and
better tutoring because we know you're
going to go on to a real school or a
real college or you're going to be an
illegal
you know we don't want you to embarrass
us we want you to leave you're like a
semi-literate like these other kids
the way in which people gathered around
and supported this kind of talented
youth who was treated as a positive
exception
because they were going to go on to be a
hockey player or they're going to go on
to be a lacrosse player
or on the olympic running team in
contrast to the other children
who were being starved and beaten
and raped and taught nothing and ended
up
semi-illiterate or completely unreal or
what have you just it was a bad
education in that sense they didn't show
up you know learned and prepared to go
to college
with absolutely no hope of going on to
college and also know like uh
it's not like it's not like the german
uh system of uh
you know training you to have a career
as an engineer or something sorry
germany has famous for this kind of
technician
system where it's there's a lot less
emphasis on literature
but there's more emphasis on hands-on
training where you learn how to work in
a wood shop and working
with metal tools no no no no there's
this really kind of this
education system devised you know for
oppression for the sake of oppression
and so on
um the evils of the system
are illustrated very well by examining
the exceptions to the rule
and then how their lives turned out and
how they they benefited from being taken
aside and given
given this kind of a special treatment
yeah
so you know um when i hear
the current discourse about first
nations people in canada
the slow motion genocide and what's
supposedly
being done about it now to rectify it
i'm furious
um uh you know melissa here's me
shouting sarcastic remarks
you know at the radio we don't need
another statue
we don't need another memorial we don't
need another apology we need change
we need profound systemic change from
the bottom top and what i hate
most of all is when they claim oh and
the federal government isn't going to be
doing this alone
oh no we're going to be doing this in
partnership with native people
and and their their communities are
going to be playing a leadership role
no they're not no they're not and that's
precisely because of the education
system
because when you go to those communities
where are the surgeons
where are the architects where are the
lawyers among them where are the
highly accomplished highly erudite
people who can sit down and play a
leadership role in government
now again i'm not going to say there are
zero if you go to hobima
alberta one of the largest reservations
by population
in all of canada go to hobima alberta
you fight you find
just how few people are there who have
succeeded in any career in any metier
you know again the exceptions often are
people who became athletes or musicians
things that don't require credentials
and this kind of straight and narrow
path
that you know crucially involves high
school crucially involves the
distribution of opportunity
through education but you know look um
so this so this
this is the defining tragedy of canada
in the 21st century
and it is the reason why my daughter was
not born here and my daughter does not
have canadian citizenship
now my i wonder if my ex-wife remembers
this
but i said to my ex-wife when i dropped
out of uh
first nations university so i i guess i
digress briefly to that i was enrolled
in learning cree and ojibwe
at first nations universe i was studying
first nations language and getting
involved with activism for
and research related to the political
plight of these these native people
when i could not continue with that
anymore because the program was garbage
and the whole institution was garbage
and the particular professors involved
with garbage there's only a small number
of people
you know define a program with it and by
the way the other students were also
garbage there wasn't a single other
student there
uh learning cree really and i
i can quote them on that i i can i can
back up that claim
um i remember sitting with the
professors just asking do you know
one other student who is actually trying
to learn this language because if i
could just have one person to just
repeat the sentences back and forth with
i get some language practice because
currently there's zero in your
department
you know that would help me that would
occur they said no there isn't anybody
it's only you
you're the only guy here to learn free
so you know and by the way there were
plenty other students enrolled in the
class but that's not why they were there
they were not there to learn the
language it's another it's another story
but yeah sure there's a critique of the
students involved here
not just to critique the the professors
and the institution
um um
i said to my ex-wife my wife at the time
we were planning on having a baby
it was where i said look if i can't be
part of the solution
i do not want to be part of the problem
i'm not gonna have my daughter born here
i'm not gonna have my daughter raised
here i do not want my daughter to be a
canadian citizen
now yes this directly has to do with the
genocide
and the fact that it was the door was
closed it was going to be impossible for
me to be
part of the solution for me to be part
of the politics of
cree language revival and activism and
advocacy for
native people yeah and of course it's
partly also because the actual education
system in canada
is so awful i wouldn't want my daughter
to grow up in it whether she were
black or white um and by the way before
my daughter was born
we didn't know to what extent she might
come out looking black or white my
daughter is just partly
african in her ancestry something it's
something that was quite a big
deal at the uh at the hospital where we
gave birth to her by the way
the doctors and nurses there were not
cool with our ambiguous racial status
bringing us back to the uh anecdotes
about racism in australia and the
british empire everything else
uh so i want to say sir we're wrapping
up this this unit wrapping up this
section guys one of the main responses
to the news
in these last few days it's very much
news today
but it's been talked about for just a
couple days now about uh
about 212 corpses being found on the
site of one particular school
the estimate is that about 6 000
students were killed
that doesn't include newborn babies
killed on site newborn babies that were
produced by the teachers
raping the students getting them
pregnant and then taking the babies and
putting them directly in the furnace
which is an historically proven fact
that that happened it's not
a theory um so there were corpses
especially of babies that were disposed
of in furnaces that there were no
remains so there were other corpses
buried on site
where we do have evidence and we have
eyewitness testimony and records right
things and the use of shackles and the
use of websites records
one of the main responses from canadians
was to point out that there were schools
for white people
in the british empire that were just as
bad or
even worse okay and that is true
okay that's not an excuse that's not an
explanation
but it is true and it is worthwhile to
tell this story
about how horribly we treated our
indigenous people
in the context of for example the the
so-called
homeboy system a lot of you don't know
before homeboy was a slang term it was a
legal term
the system of homeschooled home children
these uh the home children that's what
they were called homeboys
um the various systems i mean ultimately
even
anne of green gables is about for how
children were treated if their parents
were in debtors prison
if they were sent out to the colonies
because it was felt that the slums of
london were overpopulated
there were all these bizarre forms of
you know kind of
late victorian and edwardian you know
ideas of education
that were really absolutely awful that's
true
that's true okay nevertheless you know
this is not to belittle one or the other
don't dismiss
how awful education was for one group of
people by pointing to how awful
education was for other people right i
mean yes it's important
to understand that context right and
what what
how does this matter today that's this
is a big part of understanding
how is it possible that the quality of
education in canada is so terrible
for everybody today everybody
my education was terrible i grew up in a
labor neighborhood that had lead pipes
there was literally i was given lead
poisoning my whole [ __ ] childhood in
downtown toronto
i went to a terrible school i went to
school with
you know newly relocated refugees from
chile and
around the world and new immigrants from
greece and
south america and africa and the
caribbean and so on and
we had a couple of koreans um i think we
didn't have any chinese kids in my
school but we had korean by the way
you know i grew up in this you know
multicultural fantasy of what
canada is supposed to be in the middle
of downtown toronto with lead pipes
i had a terrible education my mother is
a member of the order of canada
my mother is a knight in france she's a
chevalier
i am as elite as privileged as
anyone in canada can be i allegedly went
to the best university in canada
and it was terrible even i am the
product of a terrible education system
and why is that none of these
institutions were built
with the concept of the pursuit of
excellence nobody was trying to create
an institution that was excellent where
you'd feel
people are going to compete to be a part
of this institution people are going to
be jealous of this institution this is
going to be better
than the best university in paris this
is going to be better than the best
university in berlin this is going to
be better than the university in london
there are going to be
wealthy people in london england saying
oh
we want to send our kid to this school
in canada we want to send our kid to
this university camp
because they are the best they are the
best in the world
at this topic at what they do with their
specialization
and the truth is that universities in
canada today
are not even the best at teaching the
cree language
at teaching the inuit language and
teaching the mohawk language
we're not even the best in this one tiny
field
that we have a unique advantage where
you'd think the germans and the french
and the japanese
would not be able to challenge us
because we alone have these indigenous
people and
universities in canada are not the best
at anything high schools in canada
are not the best at anything and the
shameful
ignorance that you deal with okay
i used to know a lot of first nations
people i used to know a lot of them
i've already just got described the
context when i was in toronto i knew a
few i did have a few first nations
friends
but there are only a few around i'm
sorry they're a tiny percentage
i did i did a few first nations foreign
when i lived in saskatchewan as a first
nations university i was talking to
first nations people every day cree
ojibwe denne you know some from further
away you know mostly from that
area cree ojibwe uh
okay and a lot of them spoke to me
with shame and downcast eyes
about you know how ignorant people were
in their town where they came from in
canada
they'd say people you know they haven't
read any books they don't really know
anything about history
and that they're alcoholics that they
spend all the time this is how they talk
and sometimes they would say not
terribly positively or hopefully
that they came to this university or
they were trying to study because they
were trying to
try to rise above this background and i
was so let's say
they would be from some place like
hobima alberta some hopima is a horrible
hopeless town by the way i'll just walk
anyway i could give you a link to a
video i made
i might as well um
[Music]
this is a video i made it's only about
uh oh i think it's shadowband on my own
channel
channel maybe i can't get it
yeah so i'm censored by youtube so i
can't get my own video
anyway i had a short video uh on my
channel
that um is called canada a country
that's very different from its
propaganda
and that includes some short clips of
what life is only about two minutes long
show some clips of what life is like in
hobima specifically hobie
alberta um so yeah guys when you search
within my channel
some videos won't come up they'll be
invisible
and that's one of the reasons why i made
this separate website so
if you search here and you put in like
even the word canada
propaganda well i guess propaganda or
something is a good a good uh
search term to use and uh you can find
this
this video that's called canada kind of
it's very different from its propaganda
might as well just pause to show these
guys when i
allude to what uh hopelessness of life
and who being that's like
oh now i just have to click through
every single video that has propaganda
and it's
descriptive here we go and a country
that doesn't resemble it's propaganda
that's the video so if you want to know
about the kind of hopelessness
of what that's like that link will will
take you to it
um anyway so i'd meet these first
nations people and they would be from a
place like
hobima they'd be from one place another
so guys seeing that pause i just wanna
point out you've been with me here for
one hour
there are 31 of you in the audience
only 12 of you have hit thumbs up
i mean you know if you're sitting on the
fence if you're not sure that this is a
video worth watching
that's one thing but it does actually
help the live stream it will be for
multiple people if all 30 of you
hit the thumbs up button then actually
it'll be listed more on youtube and more
people could have been here
during the last hour and more people
could be or during the next hour or
however long
we go on this livestream so guys it's
fine and i wouldn't say this in the
first 15 or 30 minutes if you just got
here at the beginning i understand
you're not sure what this is going to be
about you're not sure if you're gonna
enjoy it fine
but if you hit the thumbs up button it
will help the youtube channel it will
help this particular live stream if you
do it now if you do it while the live
stream is ongoing it actually does
promote it it's advertised more
than you do because then they think oh
okay 30 people are watching this and all
30 give the thumbs up okay
um some other people can watch this okay
so look i talked to first nations people
you can click on that link and you can
see how hopeless and awful life is
in hobie alberta and there are some
other clips they're not it's not
entirely about
people you get some really striking
vistas about how awful life is out there
they said look people in their community
they come from they're generally
alcoholics and they're
ignorant and everything is helpless and
i'd say them so i did this i had the
same conversation
many times with people from different
first nations community first nations
and saying oh yeah tell me something
what's the nearest town what's the
nearest white
settlement like what's the nearest small
town there on the countryside that's
full of
white people because that is how these
people live there's there's one town
over here that's all
first nations people all native people
someone over here that's all white
people that's what rural canada is like
and they would name the town and say
when you go there
what percentage of those people do you
feel are alcoholics
you know how well-read or well-educated
are the white people who are living like
just down the street from you like in
the nearest
community out there and every time
they'd be kind of
dumb struck by they'd realize whoa
that wasn't the comparison they were
making in their own mind they realized
and they would say
in slightly different words every time
yeah you're right
like the rural communities down the road
it would be a couple the one of the
north the one of the east the one of the
south
those are also completely populated by
incredibly ignorant poorly educated
alcoholic people
well it's not just us and that's that's
really how they feel they feel like
on television they see white people who
are highly educated
highly erudite sober well-dressed clean
living you know like
they have this image of white western
civilization through television they
watch a lot of television i mean
so so do we all in canada you know you
know and then they see themselves they
look in the mirror and they look at
their neighbor and they look at their
parents and they look at the squalor
and poverty and hopelessness and low
levels of education alcoholism
and that's the contrast they live within
their minds and they're not thinking
about the next town
uh down the street one of the
one of the people i said this to was
over the internet most i think all the
conversations except for this one were
face-to-face conversation i remember
once
i talked to a cree activist on the
internet so this is
this is probably still on the internet
somewhere and i remember i just tried to
make it easier to visualize i said
have you ever gone to the nearest white
town white majority small city or town
out there
near this this reservation and gone and
walked down the street on recycling day
so not everyone has this but in canada
commonly there's one day of the week
where people put out a blue plastic box
in front of their house that's full of
glass bottles
okay and when you walk down the street
you can see who's an alcoholic
i mean you walk down the street and you
are seeing bottles of whiskey
and bottles of wine you are seeing
bottles
stacked up going you see an indication
of just how much drinking there
and i said if you did that do you really
think
that the level of alcohol consumption is
so much higher in your community
than it is in the white community down
the street or next door you know if you
know those people
and i say most of the time there's some
level in which they do know those people
they have to deal with
the alcoholic rednecks that live down
the street but they don't
see it as a continuum so the failure of
our education system
it is not a tragedy for indigenous
people only it's a tragedy
for all of us and to solve the problem
whether it takes 1 million or 10 million
or 100 million dollars or 10 billion
dollars a year
every year if we provide them with
truly excellent education the best
education in the world
education that's so good that there are
people in paris
and berlin and london who say they want
to come and study
with the mohawks they want to go to that
mohawk university
they want to go because they're the best
at something
you know i'm not saying each university
is going to do the best everything maybe
one of them is the best at surgery and
one of them is the best in architecture
there could be a mohawk school of
architecture that is admired by the
germans in berlin
for the excellence of its programs and
what you would actually be doing
is redistributing economic opportunity
right you can redistribute the land you
can't you can give people
land to farm on you can but in terms of
the failure in terms of what went wrong
in the last 50 years in canada a crucial
concept to understand is redistributing
opportunity all right i've made already
videos talking about the ways in which
redistribution of mind is in some ways
kind of a false idol
it creates some problems and it doesn't
solve many of the problems people
present to me
okay so i end here my segment on
our ongoing slow motion genocide in in
canada
i have a ten dollar donation from
charles hannah so thank you charbelle
um i assume we're going on talking about
israel now as the main subject is that
was number two in our elections for what
what talk
we're gonna we're gonna deal with um but
thank you for the donation i mentioned
earlier that my youtube channel
generates incredible little money and in
the past i've posted screenshots of
exactly how much
i've also provided how much to my uh to
max wife's lawyer for example that's a
i remember at one point my my lawyer
asked me can i provide an
average amount for how much i earned
from youtube every month
and i said no an average amount would be
very difficult but i can tell you the
precise amount
because that's kind of thing it is
youtube so you can you can you can print
out the exact amount
but thank you um this youtube video will
generate basically zero money aside from
donations of this kind
or aside from support on patreon and
thank you guys for just paying one
dollar a month
all right and by the way if you do join
my patreon you get to read the chapters
of my book
now so you can read not all of them but
you can read at least the first
five chapters of the book or something
as pdfs immediately this book that i've
been mentioned
uh mentioned repeatedly okay so i'm
going to read to this question and i
assume we're going to talk about
uh israeli politics at some length
apologies if you've covered this what is
your view on the actions of israel and
hamas in their missile firing is one
side more justified than the other oh
yeah it was
very well thank you for the donation
very broad question okay i thought we
might get something more uh
more specific here um
james newman regrets that he saw the
live stream beginning earlier but he was
too busy to watch
um i think that's a good thing james i
think it's
good that you're busy i'm happy to hear
that you're busy
it's virtuous to be busy in life and i'm
i'm glad to hear that you're busy i'm
i'm not terribly busy and uh
you know i think you and the audience
are benefiting from that in numerous
ways
including including the stack of books
i'm working my way through and so
and then sharing with you what i'm
mentioning what i meant to get out of it
um oh
okay you know
my main problem with the
israel-palestine conflict
is the left-wing misperception of the
issue
now one of the reasons why that's my
main problem is that i spend my life
surrounded by left-wing people
it's difficult for me to imagine how
different this video would be
if living here in canada or going to the
university or even my own family life
if i were surrounded by right-wing
people and dealing with their
misconceptions about or misperceptions
of israel but i don't
just a couple days ago i sent a message
to another vegan
youtuber i will leave it anonymous as to
this is
but there was another vegan youtuber who
on instagram had used these
hashtags indicating that she supports
palestine
that she's anti-israel and pro-palestine
and so on
and i said to her look i'd be happy to
have you have a discussion with me you
can come on my next live stream or
whether it's by skype or whatever method
um i'm surprised to see that you're pro
hamas
[Laughter]
but i'm quite happy to i'm quite happy
to you know discuss with you and talk
you through the
political history and talk about what's
going on now
she was shocked at that and she wrote
back saying that she didn't realize that
she was identifying herself as pro hamas
in the hashtags and she went on to say
that she feels that she only wants to
talk about veganism on youtube
and that she's not comfortable talking
about the israel palestine conflict
she's not comfortable being judged
by these hashtags she uses for what her
political position is
and i wrote back to her in a charming
and affable way like i'm i'm not gonna
by the way the first message was also
from my perspective charming an affable
that wasn't
insulting her or picking a photo and i
was being warm and friendly i was
genuinely encouraging her look if you
want to talk to me i'm happy to talk to
you about it
it didn't it didn't say i'm going to
prove you wrong so i'm going to be happy
to talk through the
question um
but i said to her look come on live by
the hashtag
die by the hashtag of course people are
going to judge
your political opinions based on
political statements you make
accompanied by a hashtag on a public
platform like instagram
people are also going to judge you by
the slogan that it says on your t-shirt
if you photograph yourself wearing that
t-shirt and put it on come on let's
let's be honest
so that's one side of it i think it's
interesting that left-wing people
get in fairly deep to the
rationalization of
and the support for hamas i.e the
terrorist leaders of the pro-palestinian
side in 2021
and specifically in the gaza strip you
know
and then they're shocked when they're
not sort of confronted with this even
but just ask to discuss it
just ask to talk about it oh so when did
you decide to become a hamas supporter
let's let's talk
and i think if people really were
detached about you probably could have
a kind of interesting and productive uh
discussion about it
um i currently have one palestinian
friend in the past i had two
uh the one one of them stopped being my
friend because he became ex-vegan
just mentioned that he became a
meat-eater really crazy meat-eater too
he really went nuts that guy
but anyway i used to know in the past uh
back when i lived in
laos i had a palestinian friend when i
lived in toronto at a palestinian friend
uh maybe yeah in different times of
toronto i had two different palestinians
i've known palestinians i've known
people who were
to whatever extent refugees some of them
didn't identify as refugees but
basically the reality was they left the
region
you know even if their legal status
isn't refugee they left the reason
because
of how awful it is militarily and
politically
uh some of them are wealthy too not only
for poor people by the way
so that's why they may not have a status
as a refugee but you know
whether i am talking to palestinians
themselves
or i'm talking to left wingers who have
been brought into the orbit of this
pro-palestinian cause
you know i ask them questions and then
you see how they deal with their ability
to answer or
not answer now to me these are not
gotcha questions these are not barb
questions this is not setting a trap for
somebody i'll give you an example so by
the way i'm happy to have 36 people in
the audience now we're now talking about
israel and palestine
but guys if you're here all 37 of you
why don't you hit the thumbs up button
why not have 36 37 thumbs up if you're
sitting on the fence and you don't know
yet you can wait
you can wait five minutes 10 minutes but
it really does help the channel it
really does have more people discover
the live stream
if you hit the thumbs up button more
people will know that's going on and
they can join in right now so guys
you know but if you're waiting to see
just how offensive my view on the
history of the israel palestine
conference
you can wait you can and you can press
the thumbs you know what you can press
thumbs up now
and you can change your mind and press
thumbs down later it's actually not
indelible you can change your mind on
you that's a good feature
all right the kind of question i
ask in terms of shaping the discussion
and these are
questions they're not attacks they're
not insults
but i will ask a question line you
notice
that it's called the west bank
the west bank of what
do you know why it's called the west
bank
do you know what its political status
was before
and how it gained the political status
it has right now i have never once
whether the person i'm speaking to was
palestinian or a white
westerner who was left-wing and part of
this pro-palestinian
cause or a couple times probably
southern asian people i've lived in asia
for a long life
you know but whenever this came up they
were
surprised or dumbfounded this and to be
fair my current
my current palestinian friend because i
say i only have one at the moment
he did know this he did know the answer
like as i started talking about he was
like oh yeah
right but it was so far from the top of
his mind you know it was kind of
forgotten about
it wasn't thought of as a currently
important historical fact it was
something that at some point he'd read
at some point he'd been aware of but you
know
oh what what do you what do you mean
right the west bank this is just its
name right most people don't wonder how
did canada
come to be called canada okay
the west bank was a province
of jordan it's the west bank
of jordan
it was represented in elections
in the parliament of jordan the people
there were
jordanian right
let me ask you right now in 2021
do you think that the muslim people
who are living in the west bank would be
better off
if they were again a province of jordan
and if they had elections they weren't
controlled by hamas and they weren't
controlled by the plo
you know they weren't controlled by fata
they weren't controlled by any
palestinian
terrorist organization if they had
elections in a
normal popular democracy where people
competed for ideas
and elected representatives who went to
debate what government policy should be
in the same house of parliament that
they have in jordan
does that sound to you better or worse
than being under a combination of
israeli occupation
and the sort of semi-legitimate plo
local governing policing organization
that you that you've got right now
now again most people find this very
shocking
they've never considered this before oh
the west bank was a province of a
democracy
called jordan oh the west bank
could be a province of jordan
again oh that is a solution
that's not a one-state solution and it's
not a two-state solution
that sounds like a three-state or a
four-state solution
now how oppressed
do you think the people who call
themselves palestinians
who are living in the west bank how
oppressed do you think they would be
by jordanians now if you know these
people face to face if you know them
almost every single one of them has a
family member who's living in jordan
like oh yeah yeah my uncles jordan and
jordanian you know they have they have
family living across all of these
borders they
know to what extent all these people if
they are not exactly one and the same
are intimately connected with one
another i mean
almost nobody feels like oh no the
jordanians there's some
foreign people who would be tremendously
hostile
the hostility of the modern state of
jordan
against the palestinian people was
created
because the palestinian radicals
attempted to assassinate
the royal family and the leaders in
jordan okay
there were acts of terrorism against
the government of jordan by the
palestinians including
acts of assassination and attempted
assassination
and the elite level in politics in
jordan became so
pissed off with the people we now call
the palestinians
in the west bank that they decided that
it would be in jordan's interest
that they would be better off if they
handed
the west bank over to israel and
recognized israel
as the legitimate government of the west
bank rather than trying to police it
themselves
rather than trying to engage in
anti-terrorism offense themselves
if jordan were to take over the west
bank
they would also have to get rid of
muslim radicals they would have to deal
with hamas they would have to deal with
terrorist groups that are more extreme
than hamas hamas are not the most
extreme i mean we've seen the rise and
fall of isis and so on
right every muslim government including
saudi arabia
engages in brutal tactics
of political control to suppress
muslim radicals in the territory the
government of saudi arabia
imprisons and tortures its own people to
prevent muslim radicals
from taking over or influence the
government and of course the government
of saudi arabia
is itself a muslim fundamentalist
government right so these things are not
mutually extricable right basically
every single
muslim majority country its government
is to some extent or another
in a state of siege against its own
citizens
because there are radical elements and
there are also some elements by the way
that aren't necessarily
radical in the same way as hamas but
there will be
elements that are allied with and
working for
iran does this sound familiar
does this sound like the politics of
iraq and yemen
you have heard of yemen you know so
there will be
some muslims who are of a pro-iranian
political or religious inclination and
then
the government of the muslim majority
nation is there would be
some oppression in the west bank if they
were governed
by the jordanians and if they were
electing people to parliament and
participate in the same problems
however obviously the majority
of reasonable people people who are not
radical
muslim fundamentalists in the west bank
today they would be more comfortable
being ruled by in being a part of one
government
with jordan than being ruled by the
israelis right
the gaza strip
what would happen if it were ruled by
egypt
what would happen if we gave up the
pretense that this tiny piece of land
ought to be and must be its own
country governed by hamas
there's no chance now for the gaza strip
even that it can be governed by
fatah or the plo right what if
they elected representatives what if
they participated in the same
government as the rest of egypt what if
all that
hatred and resentment and anti-semitism
against israel
were allowed to depressurize in the
relative enormity of egypt
right egypt is in every important sense
a bigger country
than israel in terms of the number of
millions of people
insurance the economic opportunity right
what we have created partly through
united nations policy partly through
israel's policy sure
is a culture of perpetual dependence
on the status of being a refugee within
your own country the palestinian
you know refugee agency set up by the
united nations uh perpetual
you know handouts which is indeed those
handouts are
feeding and arming hamas you know people
being educated
in schools that really the schools that
palestinians go to they do
radicalize them they do teach them to
hate israel they do teach them that they
have this unique
political ethnic and cultural identity
as palestinian
the reality is this distinct identity
was carved out
by for in the west bank a lot of people
when the plo took over when this unique
political status emerged
you know in a sequence of wars with
israel and again with the rest of jordan
getting more and more fed up with the
west bank
right a lot of people crossed the river
and maintained their jordanian
citizenship and continued living in
jordan right
it's the people who stayed behind and
now we're into several generations of
people who have been raised in schools
that are controlled
by the plo or by you know
hamas or worst right people who are
given a radicalizing education
and who are told that they're the
indigenous people on this land and that
their whole purpose
is to kill the jews
anti-semitism is not a minor
or incidental feature of the muslim
faith
um
who killed the prophet muhammad
who poisoned the prophet muhammad
i ask people they're often shocked at
this question
what was her ethnicity the woman who
poisoned
the prophet muhammad that led to him
being permanently ill
he died several years later but he never
did recover
from the poisoning this may be a
simplification to say that the poisoning
killed him but it weakened him and
sickened him and
uh led eventually to his to his death
he was he was poisoned by a jewish woman
wasn't he
oh did you not know that
do you really not know the extent to
which the muslim faith
is profoundly and integrally
anti-semitic that this is something
they're raised with
really from birth is this intense hatred
against the jews
how many jews lived in baghdad
let's say in 1930 before world war ii
look it up what was the jewish
population of baghdad oh and what's the
jewish population of baghdad today
oh and where did they go oh oh
oh really oh and what was the jewish
population in iran
and what was the jewish population in
uzbekistan
what was the jewish population even in
egypt
all these places had ancient continuous
jewish cultures jewish neighborhoods in
the major cities
oh oh oh you weren't aware of that oh oh
oh you thought palestinians
were the only refugees at the time why
don't you look at the math
how many jewish refugees were produced
by the genuinely genocidal
political circumstances that surrounded
the creation of the state of israel
and where did you expect them to go
the creation of the state of israel is a
tragedy
in more ways than one but it deserves to
be asked of
each and every one of these arab states
that claim
that the state of israel should not
exist where
are your jews you
had a jewish population
you had a jewish minority right up to
approximately world war ii
and today their descendants are either
in israel
or in some cases they're in the united
states of america
they fled because they had to flee there
was a period of time
that scholars routinely referred to as
the second holocaust
more often what i see in scholar
literatures people say the period of the
fear
of a second holocaust the potential
second holocaust
that right after world war ii wrapped up
and you have the beginnings
of the creation of the state of israel
that you have this militant rise
of anti-semitism across the muslim world
i can't even say across the arab world
sorry the arab world is one thing the
muslim world is another aha
geographically right oh yeah there used
to be
there used to be a lot of jews in
morocco remember
if you ever read 19th century
travelogues
there used to be jews in egypt you
remember when napoleon
arrived in egypt and everywhere he went
there were these big jewish populations
who came out and talked to him and
interacted with the french
soldiers where are they where are they
today
all right there was a huge relocation
of the jewish population from across the
muslim world the arab world
etc yeah and
turkey is remembered relatively
positively in this history when you talk
to israelis
they always feel like the turks were the
exceptions the turks were okay that they
weren't part of this
uh but a lot of jews got uncomfortable
and moved this way also
right so yeah
although it is tragic that in this
creation state of israel
some people lost their homes
the telling of this story with the left
wing in the 21st century
presents it as if only muslims lost
their homes
and not jews and the reality is
precisely the jews who were being
resettled into israel
were people who just had lost their
homes some of them had just lost their
homes in
baghdad some of them had just lost their
homes across the region
and they had been resettled into israel
and the people we call
palestinians yes some of them did lose
their homes
but they also were engaged in an armed
and genuinely
genocidal series of uprisings against
the israelis
many of them i mean in in most cases
based on everything i've read the know
of
it's not even the case that they were
formally kicked out
of the state of israel as it became but
it was just that they were aware that
they had been engaged in
an armed struggle against israel they
had been out shooting people in the
streets
they've been out fighting and they say
oh we lost the war we gotta go
we gotta retreat like where they just
literally retreated they ran away in
that sense like in terms of a moving
battlefront you know and that they were
combatants
they were engaged in the struggle you
could say to prevent the rise of the
state of israel or to push israel into
the ocean
they would say right this was a war that
was fought
i was going to say on two sides on many
sides this is what created the state of
israel
so it was a tragedy on many sides for
many different people
right
let's ask this wraps up what i have to
say about the current
israel palestine but let me just ask
broadly
do i support the state of israel
do i support the state of saudi arabia
no i say no to both
for the same reason i don't support any
government that is based on in this
sense
theocracy i do not support religious
apartheid i do not support religion
period
i'm an atheist and i'm a nihilistic
atheist i think the relationship between
church and state and israel
is toxic and shouldn't exist in the 21st
century
i don't think it should exist in saudi
arabia either
the reality is that americans and
europeans
support the state of israel today
because of a
small minority of jewish people in
israel
who resemble in their cultural political
democratic values europeans and
americans
right the reality is europe and the
united states of america do not support
orthodox jews orthodox judaism or the
heredi
or what have you they do not support
religious fundamentalists
in the jewish faith i think
pardon me i think it deserves to be said
that sympathy
and support for israel only exists
in as much as israel resembles
a secular western democracy but it is a
resemblance
only i have heard right wingers i've
heard conservatives
many times say proudly if you travel
throughout the whole region
i.e egypt syria
jordan what have you you know where you
know where gay people are comfortable
you know where you can be openly
homosexual and if you know israel
israel is the only place where you can
have a gay nightclub and where there's
an open
kind of gay subculture that is
surrounded by these muslim states where
it's
terrible
have you talked to anyone who opens or
operates a gay nightclub in israel
[Laughter]
there are orthodox jews constantly
trying to shut down the gay nightclubs
in israel like it's true
they're organic of course it's it's
better and safer to be homosexual in
israel
than it is in saudi arabia or syria or
iraq even or iran or egypt you know it's
true
but to say there's a tension is an
understatement you're talking about a
country where really the majority of
people
are religious fundamentalist maniacs
and i have no sympathy in this sense for
zionism
or for you know politicize judaism as a
religion
if there were a christian country
anywhere in the world that was as
christian as israel is jewish
you know i wouldn't support the
existence of that government if uh
if if italy became conquered by
the vatican city you know if you said a
people state
uh take over the government of italy
it's it's unimaginable now of course
but if you had a theocratic government
in italy again
one might say if they returned to this i
would of course this is a terrible step
forward for democracy
so in this sense the very premise of
israel is you know it's made absurd
it's made risible it's made immoral by
what the israeli government really is
however people support
the existence the state of israel
because they support people like me
i'm a jewish dissident intellectual and
they support people like jerry seinfeld
and the fantasy is that
people like me and jerry seinfeld can
build a utopia
for western democratic values in
jerusalem in the in the sinai desert you
know
the in the middle of this terrible war
zone you know what maybe the truth is we
can't
you know i i get that dream i mean that
really is a kind of perfect
colonialist fantasy isn't it you know
but the reality is that what the state
of israel is now
and if you look at the demographics what
it is going to become because guess who
has more babies
do you think the people like me and
jerry seinfeld have 10 kids each
no you know guess who does have families
with 10 kids each guess what kind of
person is raising 10 kids with
extremist values the reality is that
both sides of the conflict both
the palestinian side and the israeli
side it is becoming only more
fundamentalist with time um
predominantly and proportionately it is
becoming
populated by and politically controlled
by
people that i would very readily
describe as
religious fanatics okay guys so the
title of this youtube video
was politics israel ancient rome
canadian genocide martin luther king
jr's assassination
so we have we have covered almost
everything so i can do a brief reading
here i've got some
i've got some readings from appian i
don't even have to read it to you i
could i mean well i could read a
paragraph or two i'll
just talk about it so if you guys don't
know appian um i'm just gonna give you
his name
we gotta capitalize i think we have to
capitalize both the a and ancient
and the r in rome you know uh but i'll
give you a reading from appian who's
made a big impression on me
but anyway i'll just briefly uh
you know scroll through some of these
some of these comments
thank you guys by the way for hitting
the thumbs up button as opposed to we
now got
more than 30 thumbs up and as i
mentioned it does actually uh
yeah so question about the um the
discord server anymore
uh that's right i've deleted it and
moved on
[Music]
um
so exe comments a similar question to
ask people so it depends which way the
conversation goes i mean when i'm
talking real life conversation these
people
would israelis live better lives if the
whole area became palestine
and he answers hell no um
so look it depends what you're talking
about what the purpose the conversation
is
but sure sometimes it's important to
really illustrate to people just how
genocidal the intent of the other side
is
and we've just seen the rise in the fall
of the islamic state
and you know the form of genocide
that islam engages in not just in the
ancient past but
still today with the rise and fall of
isis it does also involve
slavery and specifically sex slavery
that's one of the main
motivations for the extremists with isis
so what it is to be conquered by a
muslim fundamentalist army or by muslim
fundamentalist terrorists
and what that would entail what kind of
you know what kind of tragedy that would
be
that is something we're thinking about
not just in israel but also in
afghanistan
and it's a question i i don't know if
this will happen but would joe biden
sit idly by if the pro-democracy
minority in afghanistan were now going
to be
enslaved and raped by the taliban and
other
isis and other religious fundamentalists
of that kind
uh conquering it and destroying the
democracy and destroying the education
system
that the americans worked so hard to to
build up there um i doubt it and would
anyone want to sit idly by
if hamas were to do this to israel and
yes it is not
inappropriate to say to the women of
israel because
the policy again this is in the quran
and it's in the hadith and it's in the
history of islam
the the policy is of killing the men
and enslaving uh sexually enslaving
uh the surviving women that is that is
what
islam as a religion is built on and
we've had it demonstrated to us vividly
by the very recent history of isis
so don't kid yourself with that being
conquered by buddhists
has advantages and disadvantages
but you know what would it be like if
israel were conquered by
thailand not so bad
i i'm not saying i particularly prefer
to be ruled that's okay that's a
difficult question would would you
rather be ruled by the king of thailand
or by the uh or by benjamin netanyahu
the current uh government of israel
tough choice but yes yeah i mean you
know the stakes are the stakes are very
high
and the the consequences are very very
serious and that's why for the most part
you know
everyone expects that um all the western
powers are just going to continue to
support
the perpetuation of the status quo
forever and ever and
the status quo works for some people
including some people in the plo and
some people in hamas you know
there was the possibility under donald
trump that things were fundamentally
going to change and things did
start to change in israel i give all the
credit for that to his
uh his son-in-law jared kushner but now
with joe biden i assume that the policy
on israel is just going to be to
maintain
uh the same situation have nothing at
all change and again the actual
oh sorry let's let's just note both
egypt
and jordan are pro-israel
they're anti-hamas and they're anti-plo
and in effect they're anti-palestinian
and many palestinians would
complain about that too i mean now in
reality up until now
uh saudi arabia has been pro-american
and pro-israel anti-hamas anti-plo
so you know and many palestinians will
complain about that that they're
surrounded by enemies
and they tend to cling to they feel they
have positive support from
syria that syria alone is
pro-palestinian pro-pro-hamas pro-pll
and pro-other
in favor of other organizations and
syria is still technically
in a state of war against thailand sorry
against thailand
yes syria still is uh
at a state of war with with israel yeah
so all right so guys that's that's the
end of that
um say a little bit about appian then
call it
call it call it off the night um
this is appian describing to you the way
in which slavery
destroyed the roman empire this is from
appian's book on the civil wars
um book one
the romans as they subdued the italian
people successively in war
used to seize a part of their lands and
build towns there
or enroll colonists of their own to
occupy those already existing
and their idea was to use these as
outposts but of the land acquired by war
they assigned the cultivated part
forthwith to the colonists
or sold or leased it since they had no
leisure as yet to allot the part which
then lay desolated by war
which was generally the greater part
they made proclamation in the meantime
that those who are going to work it
might do so for a toll of the yearly
crops
a tenth of the grain and a fifth of the
fruit
from those who kept flocks was required
a toll of the animals
both oxen and small cattle they did
these things
in order to multiply the italian race
which they considered the most laborious
of peoples
so they might have plenty of allies at
home
but the very opposite thing happened
for the rich getting possession of the
greater part of the undistributed lands
and being emboldened by the lapse of
time to believe that they would never be
dispossessed absorbing any adjacent
strips
and their poor neighbor's allotments
partly by purchase under persuasion
and partly by force came to cultivate
vast tracts
instead of single estates using slaves
as laborers and herdsmen
less free laborers should be drawn from
agriculture into the army
at the same time the ownership of slaves
brought them great gain
from the multitude of their progeny who
increased because they were exempt
from military service thus certain
powerful men
became extremely rich and the race of
slaves multiplied throughout the country
while the italian people dwindled in
numbers and strength
being oppressed by penury taxes
and military service
what's fascinating about appian is this
is not the subtext
this isn't an interpretation i have to
present to you
this is right up on the surface you know
so what he is explaining is that the
romans had very rapidly conquered
a huge amount of land and the assumption
was that this land would be distributed
in small parcels to the soldiers
soldiers who had engaged in conquering
the soldiers were
citizens the soldiers paid taxes
and did compulsory military service and
this would be some relatively
egalitarian arrangement like whereas in
rome a small number of people
you know had uh you know all the uh had
all the wealth and fortune
it's a very unequal society that by
expanding they would create a more equal
society
but instead they ended up creating a
much more unequal one
um instead they created a society
in which a small number of families
owned
huge tracts of land and the farmers who
were working on that land
were not italian were not roman citizens
were not these soldiers
they were slaves slaves don't pay taxes
slaves don't do military service and i
would just
note this is an historical circumstance
in which actually the slaves
who were referred to as being a
different race from the italians
the slaves were actually whiter skinned
than the slave owners than
the italians this situation the people
being enslaved were from places that are
today
germany and france and denmark and what
have you
also some way into eastern europe in
this period i don't know if they were as
far as romania yet
but they went a fair fair ways east into
eastern europe and you know
anyway but anyway these were
white-skinned and fair-haired peoples
who were being enslaved
and brought to italy as slaves and it
was they were saying we're of a
different
quote-unquote race from the italians
they look somewhat different obviously
but this is not actually a scenario of
white people
enslaving black people not that i'm
suggesting you the the roman empire was
morally opposed to enslaving black
people but the mass phenomenon they're
talking about here
of the change in the ethnic character of
of italy under the system
actually was a europeanization
of italy and it's bringing in slaves uh
from the areas that have been conquered
north including by people like
in case you haven't heard of uh julius
caesar
anyway so we get a really kind of um
inspiringly brutal and honest account
of how republicanism
is incompatible with slavery
and how republicanism is incompatible
with extreme inequality but then also
the republic was incapable of engaging
in the redistribution of land
the redistribution of wealth and so
the republic had to die
appian's history of the civil war book
one
a tremendously moving and meaningful
book and one that has
much more relevance to politics in the
united states of america today
politics in western europe today than
the whole discourse
of 19th century german philosophy
including karl marx
that attempted to talk honestly about
social class class war class struggle
gotta tell you something if you're
interested in class struggle
its importance politically past present
and future
i recommend so you take some time to
read appian